
HOME
PROGRAMS
THE SCHOOL
APPLY
GET INVOLVED
BLOG
CONTACT
Web Development
What graduates grok.
Basics //

Become a Production-Ready Developer

The Ruby program is a 12 week, full time, intensive program, designed give you the equivalent skillset and experience of an entry-level Ruby developer. Because we focus heavily on collaboration, you are required to be on campus Monday Thru Friday, 9AM-6PM throughout the duration of the program. There is certainly a fair amount of work to be done beyond those hours (many students choose to stay late and come in on weekends), but that’s the minimum.

Prior to arriving to campus, you’ll also complete 4 weeks (80-120 hours in total) of prework assignments at home. This, plus the following 12 weeks of on-campus learning, amounts to a 16 week commitment.

The cost for the semester is $12,000. However, if you accept a position through our job placement program, we will refund $4,000 of your tuition. Grants and scholarships are also available for students from underrepresented groups like women and minorities.

We Teach What We Love

We ♥ Ruby so you'll be spending a lot of time in the Ruby ecosystem. The goal is to make you a full-stack developer, so we'll also teach you the other required technologies, buzz-words, and acronyms. 

Program //

Work in Pairs

Throughout the your time here, you'll be learning and working in teams. We're huge believers in pairing and basically feel that all work, not just programming, is better done in pairs. So get ready to make some new best friends.

Learn to Learn

Part of being a good programmer is just being able to learn new things quickly. In that spirit, you'll be learning lots of new random skills, like maybe knot tying, beat-matching and DJ'ing, a little dance, some yoga, and whatever else we can come up with. There's a bit of "wax on wax off" going on here, so you'll have to trust us that these skills will make you a better coder.

Build Real Things

Obviously, the best way to learn is by doing. But there's no point in building another sample blog, micro-status, or todo list application. Instead, you'll actually be building software that the school will use everyday. That's right, we eat our own dogfood. Expect to work on projects that will require a full-stack of skills and technologies.

While building, you'll go through all the phases of a project: figuring out what features to implement, breaking them into small iterations and stories, delegating and accepting work, automating a test suite, deploying to production, and everything in between. By the end of the semester, you'll be able to point to specific commits and features that you had ownership over. What's a better resume then that?

You’ll build at least one side-project on your own and at least one, more complex project, as part of a team.

A few previous projects we're proud of:

Milktrackr

Never be out of milk again. MilkTrackr is a personalized milk dashboard for dairy enthusiasts. The application tracks and displays data on a user's milk consumption using a wifi enabled Arduino. When the milk's running low, users get a text reminding them to pick up a new carton.

MISSQL Command

MISSQL Command is an interactive learning tool designed to teach SQL to beginners. Users become MISSQL Commanders and learn SQL from scratch, all while saving the world from nuclear annihilation.

Gitshoes

Gitshoes makes user feedback even more useful. It creates customizable feedback widgets to submit user feedback to a developer's GitHub. Best of all, it provides the developer with the browser, OS, path, and a screenshot from the page where the bug occurred.

Looseleaf

Looseleaf is app that leverages the power of chain letters to help users and their friends collaboratively write and visualize stories. They simply start a story, share it with a few friends, and watch the story grow.

Octomap

Octomaps is a mapping application designed to show how people from all over the world work together to create awesome open-source software.



Structure //

Prework: Fundamentals

Before arriving on campus all students complete 100+ hours of prework online. During this phase we go for breadth over depth. The goal is to familiarize you with some basic concepts and get everyone to a minimum baseline so that we can hit the ground running on campus.


Unit 1: Collaboration
The first thing we focus on is collaboration. While the first 4-5 weeks will be focused on fundamentals, everything will be done with pairs, and in teams. Learning to play guitar on your own is one thing, but if you want to be part of a band, you need to play with real people. We use Git on Day 1 and live in it for the rest of the program.
Unit 2: Applications
Every student works on 3-5 projects throughout the semester. While it’d be great to build the next big thing, our focus is on making you a great developer, so you’ll be building applications that strengthen your skills, not make you a billion dollars. All projects are designed around the technologies we want you to have mastered and when complete, all projects are open sourced.
Unit 3: Specialization
Towards the end of the semester students have time to dive into technologies they want to master. Want to get awesome at front-end? Cool! Build an iOS app with Ruby Motion? Sweet! We also dedicate time to focus on on-boarding and test-driven development. Students switch projects, learn to read each others’ code, write test coverage, and add features. Break things and fix them :)


Curriculum //

BECOME A PROFESSIONAL WEB DEVELOPER
HTML5: ERB
HTML is the structure that supports the web. Whether writing it through ERB or vanilla HTML, you'll have no problem applying semantics to documents and utilizing the power of markup.

CSS: SASS & LESS
Fluency in the language that makes the web beautiful is a requirement. You'll use the popular SASS and LESS extensions to CSS to create efficient and organized front-ends.

Javascript
You'll bring the web to life with jQuery powered interactions and an understanding of the core of Javascript.

The Ruby Language
Easily the most beautiful programming language ever. You will be so immersed in Ruby it will become the language of your thoughts.

Ruby on Rails
The number one web framework in use by Ninjas, Rockstars, and Hackers. Seriously, it makes web development a productive pleasure. You will be a Rails guru.

Geekery
The speed and efficiency of a programmer can be measured by proficiency with their tools. You'll fly through Sublime Text shortcuts, and never ever touch your mouse.

LEARN BEST PRACTICES
Git Control
Your code will be safely tucked away into Git and you'll collaborate with the world through Github. Tame the rainbows and work fluidly with teams, both remote and onsite.

Databases
Relational or Document Store? MySQL or Postgres? Mongo or Redis? Cloud or dev/null? Learning the fundamentals to data storage is a must, and yes, you will know SQL.

SysOps
Every developer should be a basic system operator. So you'll know how to setup a cloud server on AWS, deploy to Heroku, and SSH your way around any shell.

APIs
Whether you're designing your own Sinatra powered API or consuming the Facebook Open Graph via RubyGems, you'll be part of the read/write web revolution.

Test Drive It
Whether test-driven or behavior-driven, testing is a crucial part to professional software development. You'll assert your way to confident code with continuously integrated test-suites.

Agile Methodology
Agile is more than just a development practice, it's a philosophy for life. You will iterate your way to being a Scrum Master.

JOIN THE DEVELOPER COMMUNITY
Open Source
You will become part of the phenomenon of open source culture by contributing code and documentation to a variety of projects.

Blogs and Decks
The best way to learn is to teach. Throughout the semester you will be writing blog posts on what you're learning and making presentations at NYC on Rails.

Coder Credentials
Finally, you'll have all the street cred you'll need, complete with a StackOverflow reputation, HackerNews account, and CoderWall endorsements.

The Students //

Here’s what we look for in future developers:

 Culture
Learning is a team sport. As such, we value diversity in background and perspective. We accept about 10% of people who apply into the program. While we could probably admit 30 investment bankers who would make awesome developers, that would make for a much less interesting group dynamic. Our student backgrounds have ranged from professional poker players, Major League Baseball scouts and entrepreneurs, designers, lawyers and, yes, investment bankers.
Aptitude
Our students are smart. Real smart. Sure, we’ve got the Oxford, Harvard, etc. grads. That being said, we see code as a form of expression and value creativity above all else. Throughout our first two Ruby semesters, we realized that over 80% of our students have a background in photography, design, writing, or music. Go figure. Ultimately, students learn more from each other than from lectures. Smart students means great teachers.
Passion
There are lots of great reasons to learn how to code. You can get an awesome job at a sexy tech startup! Or launch an app and be the next Mark Zuckerberg! While those are great goals, if that’s what you’re looking for, this program is not for you. We approach coding as a lifelong craft, rather than a means to an end. Our students are passionate about being great developers and writing code that impacts people. As a recent Ruby alum told us in week 7, “I dream in Ruby.”
There’s a joy to programming. That’s the reason why we’re here, to experience the act of falling in love with programming.

— Avi Flombaum, Dean of The Flatiron School
CONTACT US

The Flatiron School
11 Broadway, Suite 260
New York, NY 10004

 (347) 729-7911
 info@flatironschool.com

RECENT BLOG POSTS

Project Recap: Kickammender
Um, so we have these chairs...
Flatiron Students Present
Thank you, NYC
Project Recap: GemifyJS
TWITTER @FLATIRONSCHOOL

@divinetechygirl http://t.co/3xCeQxH4bc :)
@benserviss stop slaloming with scooters and chairs
© 2014. THE FLATIRON SCHOOL. ALL YOUR RIGHTS ARE BELONG TO US. | MADE IN NYC